[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Find a comfortable seat.
Allow your eyes to fall shut.
Become aware of the flow of your
inhalations and exhalations.
Move the mind down to the base
of the spine, into the Root,
into Muladhara chakra.
Here, find your way into
a sense of stability,
a sense of rootedness, a
resting into the earth element.
Allowing yourself to be
supported and grounded,
and feeling your seat,
and feeling the places
where you connect into
the earth, or the floor,
or your cushion.
Here, at the base of the spine,
imagine, or see, or visualize
a yellow square, four
sides equal in length,
a golden yellow color.
And then coming into the
Bija, or seed mantra,
the seed sacred sound current
of the Root chakra will sound
or internally sound the
mantra "laang," L-A-A-N-G,
creating a resonance up through
the soft palate of the mouth,
vibrating the skull, and
feeling the sound at the base
of the spine.
Laang.
Moving up in to the sacrum, the
pelvis, and the watery places
of the body, the container
of our urinary bladder,
of the sexual organs.
And feeling a flow here.
And feeling the water
element in the pelvis.
Svadhishthana chakra,
the second chakra--
here, we'll see, or
imagine, or visualize,
a white crescent moon slung
between the two hip points
with the bowl of
the moon downward.
And the seed sound we'll use
here is "vaang," V-A-A-N-G.
Vaang.
Moving up to the navel, Manipuri
chakra, in the City of Jewels,
in the seat of flame in
our body, of our fires.
Draw the mind to the navel
and feel your inner flame,
your spark of passion,
your inspiration,
the fire of your digestion,
your individual spark.
Imagine, or see, or
visualize a red triangle
pointed downward at the navel.
The mantra we'll use here is
the sound "raang," R-A-A-N-G.
Raang.
Moving up to the space of
the heart, Anahata chakra,
our heart center.
And this is a spacious,
airy center in the body,
quite literally where
our lungs reside
as the wings of our heart space.
At the heart, visualize, see,
or imagine a six-pointed green
star, two interlaced
triangles, one pointing up,
one pointing downward--
the meeting place of the
upward flows and downward flows
in the body, the meeting
place of the masculine
and the feminine, of
transcendent consciousness
and individualized awareness.
Here, we'll use the Bij sound
"yaang," Y-A-A-N-G. Yaang.
Yaang.
Moving up to the throat,
Vishuddha chakra,
and the source of our
speech, the source of purity.
Here, we'll imagine,
or see, or visualize
a beautiful white, lunar
disc, a perfect round circle,
flat and white, shining.
We'll use the Bij mantra
"haang," H-A-A-N-G. Haang.
Haang.
Moving to the Ajna chakra, the
third eye between the eyebrows
and a bit up, our
connection to insight.
Here, imagine, see, or
visualize a golden triangle
pointed downward.
Here, we'll use the Bij sound
ksham to awaken our intuition.
Ksham.
And then moving up all
the way to the crown
of the head, Sahasrara
chakra, imagining, or seeing,
or visualizing a
flower with thousands
upon thousands of petals gently
unfolding, feeling ourselves
connect to our highest
source, our divinity.
We'll chant the
mantra "om" one time
to complete our meditation.
Om.
And you can feel free to stay
in this meditative state for as
long as you like.
Namaste.
[MUSIC PLAYING]